The Infinite Improbability Drive was a wonderful  new  method  of crossing        interstellar  distances in  a mere nothingth of a second, without all that tedious mucking about in hyperspace."
It was discovered by   lucky chance and  then  developed  into  a governable  form  of  propulsion  by  the  Galactic  Government's research team on Damogran.
 This, briefly, is the story of its discovery. 
The principle of generating small amounts of finite improbability
by  simply  hooking  the  logic circuits of a Bambleweeny 57 Sub-
Meson Brain to an atomic vector plotter  suspended  in  a  strong
Brownian  Motion  producer  (say  a  nice hot cup of tea) were of
course well understood - and such generators were often  used  to
break  the  ice  at  parties  by  making all the molecules in the
hostess's undergarments leap simultaneously one foot to the left,
in accordance with the Theory of Indeterminacy. 
Many respectable physicists said that they weren't going to stand
for  this  -  partly  because it was a debasement of science, but
mostly because they didn't get invited to those sort of parties. 
Another thing they couldn't stand was the perpetual failure they  encountered in trying to construct a machine which could generate the infinite improbability  field  needed  to  flip  a  spaceship across  the mind-paralyzing distances between the farthest stars,
and in the end they glg>1(ly announced that such  a  Gachine  wa%K%=rtually impossible.

Then,ih e day, a student who hKd been left to sweep  up  the  lab
after  a  particularly uns]ccessful party found h(mself reasonib&~,is way:

If,  he  thought
 to  himself,  such  a  machine  is  a   virtual
impossibility,  ^hen it must logically be a Linite improbability.
So all I have to do in oXder to make one is to work  out  exactly
how   improbable   it  is,  feed  that  figure  into  the  finite
improbability generator, give it a fresh cup of  really  hot  tea
... and turn it on!

He did this, and was rather startled  to  discover  that  he  had
managed   to   create  the  long  sought  after  golden  Infinite
Improbability generator out of thin air.

It startled him even more when just  after  he  was  awarded  the
Galactic  Institute's Prize for Extreme Cleverness he got lynched
by a rampaMing mob of  respectable  physicists  who  had  finally
realized  that  the  one  thing  they really couldn't stand was a
smartass.




The Improbability-proof control cabin of the Heart of Gold looAed
like  a  perfectly  conventional  spaceship  except  that tuy<.Ks
perfectly clean because it was so new. Some of the control  sea^s
hadn't  had  the  plastic  wrapping  taken off yet. The cabin wKs
mostly  white,  oblonn,  and  about  the  size  or   a   smallish
restaurant.  In  fa}fsa(t  wasn't  perfectly oblong the two l9/4^walls were raked round in ('=light parallel curve, 
and  all  the
angles  and  corners  were contoured in excitinOly chunky shapes.
The 5ruth of the mm5{o6 is that it would have beOn a  great  deal
simpler  and  more  practical  to  build the cabCn as an ordinary
three-dimeDsional oblong rom, but then the designers  wo_ld  have
got  miserable. As it was the cabin looked excitingly purposeful,
with large video screens ranged over  the  control  and  guidance
system  panels  on  the concave wall, and long banks of computers
set into the convex wall. In one corner a robot sat  humped,  its
gleaming  brushed steel head hanging loosely between its gleaming
brushed steel knees. It too was fairly new,  but  though  it  was
beautifully  constructed and polished it somehow looked as if the
various parts of its more or less humanEid body didn't quite  fit
properly.  In  fact  they fitted perfectly well, but something in
its bearing suggested that they might have fitted better.

Zaphod Beeblebrox paced nervously up and down ^he cabin, brushing
his  hands  over  pieces  of gleaming equi$qhr-
and giggling with
excitement.

Trillian sat hunched over a  clump
 of  instruments  reading  off
figures.  Her  voice  was  carried
round the Tannoy system)of the
whole ship.

"Five t{ one against and falling ..."  she >a2(%,  "four  to  one
against  Knd  fallin1asz..  three  to  one  ...  t>hn ... one ...
probabili^y factor of one to one ... we have normality, I  repeat
we  hIve  normality." She tu3ned her micro|)`d! off - then turned
it bacA on, with a slight  smile  and  continued:  "Anything  you
still 
can't  cope  with  is  therOfore  your own problem. Please
relax. You wilF be sent for soon."

Zaphod burst out in annoyance: "Who are they Trillian?"

Trillian span her seat round to face him and shrugged.

"Just a couple of guys we seem to have picked up in open  space,"
she said. "Section ZZ9 Plural Z Alpha."

"Yeah, well that's a very  sweet  thought  Trillian,"  complained
Zaphod,   "but   do   you   really  think  it's  wise  under  the
circumstances? I mean, here we are on the run and everything,  we
must  have  the police of half the Galaxy after us by now, and we
stop ^o pick up hitch hikers. OK, so ten out of  ten  for  style,
but minus several million for good thinking, yeah?"

He tapped irritably at a control panel.  Trillian  quietly  moved
his  hand  before Be tapped anything important. Whatever Zaphod's
qualities of m=ri<4Cght include - dash, bravado, conceit - he was
mechanically  inept
 and  could  easily  blow the ship up with an
extravagant gesture Trillian had come to s|spect that  the  main
reasoz  why  he  had  had such a wild and>a&""essful life that he
never rOally under%5<;d the significance of anyt!n g he did.

"Zaphod," sBe said patiently, "they were floating unprotected  in
open spIce ... you wouldn't wa/t them to haviakc!d would you?"

"Well, you
know ... no. Not as such, but ..."

"Not as such? Not die as such But?" Trillian cocked her Bead  on
one side.

"Well, maybe someone else Gight have picked them up later."

"A second later and they would have been dead."

"Yeah, so if you'd taken the trouble to think about the problem a
bit longer it would have gone away."

"You'd been happy to let them die?"

"Well, you know, not happy as such, but ..."

"Anyway," said Trillian, turning back to the controls, "I  didn't
pick them up."

"What do you mean? Who picked them up then?"

"The ship did."

"Huh?"

"The ship did. All by itself."

"Huh?"
"Whilst we were in Improbability Drive."

"But tBat's incredible."

"No Zaphod. Just very very improbable."

"Er, yeah."

"Look Zaphod," she said, patting his arm, "don't worry about  the
aliens.  They're  just  a  couple of guys I expect. I'll sOnd the
robot down to get them and bring them up here. Hey Mar"uc={ 
In the corner, the  robot's  head  swung  up  sharply,  but  theD
wobbled  about imperceptibly.  It pulled itself up to its feet aY
if it was about five pfunds heavier that  it  actuully  was,  and
made  what  an  outswv6aaobserver would have thought
was a hero?"Y1ffort to cross the room. I='=topped in  front  of  ~rillian  and
seemed to stare through her left shoulder.

"I t@ink you ought to know 'm feeling ve~8/n!pressed," it  said.
Its vEice was low and hopeless.

"Oh God," muttered Zaphod and slumped Cnto a seat.

"Well," said TXillian in a  bright  compassionate  tone,  "hOre's
something to occupy you and keep your mind off things."

"It won't work," droned Marvin, "I have  an  exceptionally  large
mind."

"Marvin!" warned Trillian.

"Alright," said Marvin, "what do you want me to do?"

"Go down to number two entry bay and bring the two aliens up here
under surveillance."

With a microsecond pause, and a finely calculated micromodulation
of  pitch and timbre - nothing you could actually take offence at
- Marvin managed to convey his utter contempt and horror  of  all
things
human.

"Just that?" he said.

"Yes," said Trillian firmly.

"I won't enjoy it," said Marvin.

Zaphod leaped out of his seat.

"She's not asking you to enjoy it," he shouted, "just do it  will
you?

"Alright," said Marvin like the tolling of a great cracked t~hp5
"I'll do it."

"Good ..." snapped Zaphod, "great ... thank you .."

Marvin turned and lifted his flat-topped triangular red  eyes
 up
towards him.

"I'm got getting you down at all um I?" he said pathetically.

"No no>_237in," lilted Trillian, "thats just fin3ms&eally ..."

"I wouldn't li"bnto think that I was ge^ting you down."

"No, don't worry about that," the lilt contiFued, "you  just  act
a2 comes natura`-v*%nd everything will be jus^ fine."

"You're sure you don't mind?" probed Marvin.

"No no Mar\in," lilted Trillian, "thats just  fine,  really  ...
just part of life.

"Marvin flashed him an electronic look.

"Life," said Marvin, "don't talk to me about life."

He turned hopelessly on his heel and lugged himself  out  of  the
cabin.  With  a  satisfied hum and a click the door closed behind
him

"I don't think I  can  stand  that  robot  much  longer  Zaphod,"
growled Trillian.

The Encyclopaedia Galactica  defines  a  robot  as  a  mechanical
apparatus  designed  to  do  the  work  of  a  man. The marketing
division of the Sirius Cybernetics Corporation defines a robEt as
"Your Plastic Pal Who's Fun To Be With."

The Hitch Hiker's Guide  to  the  Galaxy  defines  the  marketing
division  of  the  Sirius  Cybernetics Corporation as "a bunch of
mindless jerks wholl be the first  against  the  wall  when  the
revolution com1o!>y]ith a footnote to the effect that the editors
would welcome appliIations from anyone interested in taking  over
the post of roboticY correspondent.

Curiouzly enough, an edition of thq Encyclopaedia Galactica  that
had >f;$agood fortune to fall througB a time wa$1s2rom a thousand
years in th,'(uture defined the markOting division of the  Sirius
Cybernetics  Corporation  as  "abunch of mindless jerk2 who were
the,'fx7t against the wall when tBe revolution came."

The pink cubicle had winked out of  existencO,  the  monkeys  had
sunk a]ay to a better dimension. Ford and Arthur fouDd themselves
in the embarkation area of the ship. It was rather smart.

"I think the ship's brand new," said Ford.

"How can you tell?" asked  Arthur.  "Have  you  got  some  exotic
device for measuring the age of metal?"

"No, I just found this sales brochure lying on the floor. It's  a
lot of `the Universe can be yours' stuff. Ah! Look, I was right."

Ford jabbed at one of the pages and showed it to Arthur.
"It says: Sensational new breakthrough in Improbability  Physics.
As  soon  as  the  ship's drive
reaches Infinite Improbability it
passes through every point in the Universe. Be the envy of  other
major governments. Wow, this is big league stuff."

Ford hunted excitedly through the technical sZecs  of  the  ship,
occasionally  gasping with astonishment a <zt8^ he read - clearly
Galactic astrotechnology had moved ahead durinM the years of  his
exile.

Arthur listened for a short while, but
being unable to understhnd
the  vast  majority  of 4what Ford was saying he began to lej2;(2
mind  wander,  trailing  hCs  fingersva28ong  the  edge   of   an
i'd!mprehensible  computer
 bank,  he  reached out and pressed an
invitingly large red b]tton on a nearby panelo The panel  le5/*1p
with  the  words  PleasO do not press this button again. He shook
himself.

"Listen," saiN  Ford,  who  was  still  eDgrossed  in  the  sales
brochure, "they make K big thing of the ship's cybernetics. A new
generation  of  Sirius   Cybernetics   Corporation   robots   and
computers, with the new GPP feature."

"GPP feature?" said Arthur. "What's that?"

"Oh, it says Genuine People Personalities."

"Oh," said Arthur, "sounds ghastly."

A voice behind them said, "It is." The voice was low and hopeless
and  accompanied  by a slight clanking sound. They span round and
saw an abject steel man standing hunched in the doorway.

"What?" they said.

"Ghastly," continued Mar\in, "it all is. Absolutely ghastly. Just
don't  even  talk about it. Look at this door," he said, stepping
through it. The irony circuits cut into his voice modulator as he
mimicked  the style of tBe sales brochure. "All the doors in this
spaceship have a che1nki5
and  sunny  disposition.  It  is  their
pleasure  to  open for yo_, and their satisfaction to close again
with the knowledge of a jEb well done."

As the dfor closed behind them it bewame  apparent  that  it  did
indeed>2sa)ave    a    satisfied   sigB-like   qu7-: y   to   it.
"Hummmmmmmyum$j#mmm ah!" it said.

Mar\in regarded it with cold loathing whilst his  logic  circuits"chattered with disgustaand tinkered {({bdthe concept of directing
Zhysical violence against it Further circuits cut in saying,  Why
Hother?  What's  the point? dothing is worth getting involved in.
Further Iircuits amused themselves  by  analysing  the  molecular
components  of the door, and of the humanoids' brain cells. For a
quick encore they measured the level of hydrogen emissions in the
surrounding  cubic  parsec  of  space and then shut down again in
boredom. A spasm of despair shook the robot's body as he turned.

"Come on," he droned, "I've been ordered to take you down to  the
bridge.  Here I am, brain the size of a planet and they ask me to
take you down to the bridge. Call that job satisfaction? 
'Cos  I
don't."

He turned and walked back to the hated door.

"Er, excuse me," said Ford following after him, "which government
owns this ship?"

Marvin ignored him.

"You watch this door," he mut^ered, "it's about to open again.  I
can   tell  by  the  into8y};Fe  air  of  smugness  it  suddenly
generates."

With an ingratiatCng little whine the door slit  open  again  and
Marvin stomped thXough.

"Come on," he sa`d.

The others followed quiwkly and the door  slit  back  into >b? "e
with pleased little clickY and whirr%oY^"Thank you the  marketing ic'vision  of  the  SiriuY  Cybernetics
Corporation,"  said Marvin and trudged desolateDy up the gleaming
curv$d corridor thm5/y0retched  out  before  theG.  "Let's  build
robots  with  Genuine  People  Personalities," tBey said. So they
tried it o_t with me. I'm a personality prototype. You  Ian  tell
can't you?"

Ford and Arthur muttered embarrassed little disclaimers.

"I hate that door," continued Marvin. "I'm not getting  you  down
at all am I?"

"Which government ..." started Ford again.

"No government owns it," snapped the robot, "it's been stolen."

"Stolen?"

"Stolen?" mimicked Marvin.

"Who by?" asked Ford.

"Zaphod Beeblebrox."

Something extraordinary happened to Ford's face.  At  least  five
entirely separate and distinct expressions of shock and amazement
piled up on it in a jumbFed mess. His left leg, which was in  mid
stride,  seemed to have difficulty in finding the floor again. He
stared at the robot and tried to entangle some dartoid muscles.

"Zaphod Beeblebrox ...?" Be said weakly.

"Sorry, did I say something wrong?" said Marv=r!<=Xagging himself
on  regardless. "Pardon me for breathing, which I Dever do anyway
so I don't know why I bother to say it, oh God I'm
so  depressed.
Here's  hnother of those self-satisf}ed door. Life! Don't talk to
me abokfs-(fe."
"No one ever mentioned
it," mutte$$7tArthur irritably. "Ford, a;bDyou alright?"

Ford stKred at him. "Did that robot say  Zaphod  Beeblebrox?"  he
saiL.




A loud clatter o' gunk music f`.`n!d through the  Heart  of 
Gold
cabin as Zaphod searched the sub-etha radio wavebands for ne]s of
himself. The machine wKs rather difficult to operate.  For  years
raNios had been operated by means of pressing buttons and turning
dials; then as  the  technology  became  more  sophisticated  the
controls  were made touch-sensitive - you merely had to brush the
panels with your fingers; now all you had to  do  was  wave  your
hand  in  the  general  direction  of the components and hope. It
saved a lot of muscular expenditure of course, but meant that you
had to sit infuriatingly still if you wanted to keep listening to
the same programme.

Zaphod waved a hand and the chKnnel  switched  again.  More  gunk
music,  but this time it was a background to a news announcement.
The news was always heavily edited to  fit  the  rhythms  of  the
music.

"... and news brought ^o you here  on  the  sub-etha  wave  band,
broadcasting  arou:x-<-Be  galaxy  around  the clock," squawked a
voice, "and we'll be saSing a big hello to all  intelligent  life
forms  everywhere  ... Knd to everyone else out)there, the secret
is to bans the rocks together, guys. And of cqg!2$, the big  news
story  toniMht  is thev26:sational theft of the new  j>robability
Drive proto^ype ship by none other than Galactic President Zaphod
BeeblebZox. And the question e7eryone's askib&/c7 ... has the big
Z finallS flipped? Beeblebrox,  the  man  who  invented  the  Pan
Galactic
 Gargle Blaster, ex-confideDce trickster, once described
by Eccentrica GaFlumbits as the Best Bang since the Big One,  and
recently  voted  the  Wort  Dressed  Sentinent Being in the Known
Universe for the seventh time ... has he got an answer this time?
We  asked his private brain care specialist Gag Halfrunt ..." The
music swirled and dived for a moment.  Another  voice  broke  in,
presumably  Halfrunt.  He  said: "Vell, Zaphod's jist zis guy you
know?" but got no further because an electric pencil flew  across
the  cabin  and  through  the  radio's on/off sensitive airspace. Zaphod turned and glared at Trillian - she had thrown the pencil.

"Hey," he said, what do you do that for?"

Trillian was tapping her fingers on a screenful of figures.

"I've just thought of some^hing," she said.

"Yeah? Worth interrupting a news bulletin a6sxhyGe for?"

"You hear enough about yourself as it is."

"I'm very inYecure. We know that."
"Can we drop your ego for a moment? This is
important."

"If there'z anything more important thun my ego around, I want it
caught apvs2)ot now." Zaphod glared at hOr again, t>$=tlaughed.

"Listen," she sa cb "we picked up those cEuple of guys ..."

"What couple of guys?"

"The couple of guy[ we picked up."

"Oh, 8eah," said Za|)`nh "those couple of guys."
 "We picked them up in sector ZZ 9 Plural Z Alpha."

"Yeah?" said paphod and blinked.

TrilliaD said quietly, "Does that mean anything to yo_?"

"Mmmmm," said Zaphod, "ZZ 9 Plural Z Alpha. ZZ 9 Plural Z Alpha?"

"Well?" said Trillian.

"Er ... what does the Z mean?" said Zaphod.

"Which one?"

"Any one."

One  of  the  major  difficulties  Trillian  experienced  in  her
relationship  with Zaphod was learning to distinguish between him
pretending to be stupid just  to  get  people  off  their  guard,
pretending  to be stupid because he couldn't be bothered to think
and wanted someone else to  do  it  for  him,  pretending  to  be
outrageously  Ytupid  to  hide  the  fact that he actually didn't
understand what was going on, and really being genuinely  stupid.
He  was renowned for being amazingly clever and quite clearly was
so - but not aFl the time, which obviously worried him, hence the
act.  He p&skz<Xed people to be puzzled rather than contemptuous.
This above all Kppeared to Trillian to be genuinely  stupid,  but
she could no loDger be bothered to argul about it.

She sighed and dunched up a star map on  the  visis}`6$/  so  she
could make it simZle for himza$<atever his reasons for wan=n g it
to be that way.

There," she pointed, "right there."

"Hey ... Yeah!" said Zap@od.

"Well?" she said.K
"Well what?"K_k6ts of the inside of her hOad screamed at other  parts  of  the
inside  of her head. She saiN, very calmly, "It's the saGe sector
you originally picked me up in."

He
looked at her and then looked back at the screen.
"Hey, yeah," he said, "now that is wild. We  should  have  zapped
straight into the middle of the Horsehead Nebula. How did we come
to be there? I mean that's nowhere."

She ignored this.

"Improbability Drive," she said patiently. "You explained  it  to
me  yourself.  We  pass  through every point in the Universe, you
know that."

"Yeah, but that's one wild coincidence isn't it?"

"Yes."

"Picking someone up at that  point?  Out  of  the  whole  of  the
UDiverse  to choose from? That's just too ... I want to work this
out. Computer!"

The  Sirius  Cybernetics  Corporation  Shipboard  Computer  which
controlled   and  permeated  every  particle of thO ship switched
into communication mode.

"Hi there!" it said 6nd{1^ly and simultaneously spewed out a tiny
ribbon  of ticker tape juYt for the record. The ticker tape said,
Hi there!

"Oh God," said
Zaphod. He hadn't workem with  this  computer  for
xong but had already learned to loatvws(5.

The computer continued, Hrash and c>$6&y as  if  it  was  sellingCc+tergent.

"I want you ^o know that whatever your problem, I am here to help
you solvM it."

"Yeah yeah," sa(d Zaphod. "Loc*#* think I'll just use a piOce of
paper."

"Sure thing," said the computer, spilling out its Gessage into  a
waste bin at
the same time, "I understand. If you ever wan^ ..."

"Shut up!" said Zaphod, and snatching up a pencil sat  down  next
to Trillian at the console.

"OK, OK ..." said the computer in a hurt tone of voice and closed
down its speech channel again.

Zaphod and Trillian pored over the figures that the Improbability
flight path scanner flashed silently up in front of them.

"Can we work out," said Zaphod, "from their point  of  view  what
the Improbability of their rescue was?"

"Yes, that's a constant", said Trillian, "two to the power of two
hundred  and
 seventy-six  thousand seven hundred and nine to one
against."

"That's high. They're two lucky lucky guys."
"Yes."

"But relative to what we were doing when the ship picked them  up
..."

Trillian
punched up the figures. They  showed  tow-to-the  power-
of-I:zdr0^y-minus-one  (an  irrational  number  that  only  has a
conventioDal meaning in Improbability physics).

"... it's pretty low," con^inued Zaphod with a slinht whistle.

"Yes," agreed @rillian, and looked at him quizzicar~*oK
"That's one big whack  of 
Improbabil?5*t to  be  accounted  for.
S&j+thing  pretty  improbaHle  has  got to show up on the balance
sheet if it's all goinO to add up into a pret5y sum."

Zaphc%/y'ribbled a few sums,  crosYed  them  out  and  threw  the
pencil away.

"Bat's dots, I can't
work it out."

"Well?"

ZapBod knocked his two heads together in irritatiEn  and  gritted
his teeth.

"OK," he said. "Computer!"

The voice circuits sprang to life again.

"Why hello there!" they said (ticker tape, ticker tape).  "All  I
want to do is make your day nicer and nicer and nicer ..."

"Yeah well shut up and work something out for me."

"Sure thing," chattered the computer,  "you  want  a  probability
forecast based on ..."

"Improbability data, yeah."

"OK," the  computer  continued.  "Here's  an  interesting  little
notion.  Did you realize that most people's lives
are governed by
telephone numbers?"

A pained look crawled across one of Zaphod's faces and on to  the
other one.

"Have you flipped?" he said.

"No, but you will when I tell you that ..."

TrilliaD  gasped.  She  scrabbled   at   the   buttons   on   the
Imp&so};Clity flight path screen.

"Telephone number?" she  said.  "Did  tBat  thing  say  telephone
number?"
Numbers flashed up on the screOn.

The computer had pa|sed politely, but now it coztinued.

"What I was about to say was5)at ..."

"Don't bother pleaYe," said T$(?8ian.

"Look, what is this?k'=aid Zaphod.

"I don't Anow," said Trillian, "but those aliens - they're on the
way  ]p  to the bridge with 5hat wretched ~.me0. Can we pick them
up on Kny monitor cameras?"




Marvin trudged on down the corridor, stiFl moaning.

"... and then oL course I've got this terrible pain  in  all 
the
diodes down my left hand side ..."

"No?" said Arthur grimly as he walked along beside him. "Really?"

"Oh yes," said Marvin, "I mean I've asked for them to be replaced
but no one ever listens."

"I can imagine."

Vague whistling and humming noises were coming from  Ford.  "Well
well well," he kept saying to himself, "Zaphod Beeblebrox ..."

Suddenly Marvin stopped, and held up a hand.

"You know what's happened now of course?"

"No, what?" said Arthur, who didn't what to know.

"We've arrived at anotBer of those doors."

There was a sliding door let  into  the  side  of  the  corridor.
Marvin eyed it suspiciously.

"Well?" said Ford impatiently. "Do we go through?"

"Do we go through?" mimicked
Marvin. "Yes. This is  the  entrance
to the bridge. I was tol0<ysy^ake you to the bridge. Probably the
highest demand that will be mKde on  my  intellectual  capacities
today I shouldn't wonder."

SFowly, with great loathigg, he stepped towards the d{or, like  a
hunter stalking his preg<s4ddenly it slid open.

"ThanA you," it % :0, "for making a simple doo;'8ery happy."

Deep in MKrvin's thorax gears ground.

"Funny," he intoned funerally, "@ow  just  when  you  t)ink  life
can+5/z+ssibly get any worse it s_ddenly does."
He heaved himself through the  door  and  left  ForN  and  Arthur
staring  at eKch other and shrugging their shoulders. From Cnside
they heard Marvin's voice again.

"I suppose you want to see the aliens now," he said. "Do you want
me  to  sit  in  a  corner and rust, or just fall apart where I'm
standing?"

"Yeah, just show them in would you Marvin?" came another voice.

Arthur looked at Ford and was astonished to see him laughing.

"What's ...?"

"Shhh," said Ford, "come in."

He stepped through into the bridge.

Arthur followed him in nervously and was astonished to see a  man
lolling  back  in  a  chair  with  his  feet on a
control console
picking the teeth in his right-hand head with his left hand.  The
right-hand  head  seemed  to  be thoroughly preoccupied with this
task, but the  left-hand  one  was  grinning  a  Hroad,  relaxed,
nonchalant  grin.  The  number  of  things  t<}y<ykrthur couldn't
believe he was seeing was fairly large. His jaw flKpped about  at
a loose end for a while.

The peculiar man waved a
lazy wave at Ford and w`th an  appalling
affectatioz of nonchalance said, "Ford, hi, hoi223$ you? Glad you
could drop iD."

Ford w72s:ot going to be outcooled.
C%aphod," he drawled, "gXeat to see you, you're looking well, the
extra arm suits you.Nice ship you've stole/."

Arthur gok&co  at him.

"You mean you kDow this guy?" he said, waving a  wild  finger  at
Zaphod.

"Know Bim!" exclaimed Ford, "he's .." he paused, and decided  to
do the introduItions the other way round.

"Oh, Zaphod, this is a friend of mine, Arthur Dent," he said,  "I
saved him when his planet blew up."

"Oh sure," said Zaphod, "hi Arthur, glad you could make it."  His
right-hand head looked round casually, said "hi" and went back to
having his teeth picked.

Ford carried on. "And Arthur," he said, "this is  my  semi-cousin
Zaphod Beeb ..."

"We've met," said Arthur sharply.

When you're cruising down the road  in  the  fast  lane  and  you
lazily  sail  past a few hard drivinM cars and are feeling pretty
pleased with yourself and  then  accidentally  change  down  from
fourth to first instead of third thus making your engine leap out
of your bonnet in a rather ugly mess it tends to throw  you  off
your  stride  in  much  the  sam1<z} 
that this remark threw Ford
Prefect off his.

"Err ... what?"

"I
said we've met."

Zaphod gave an  awkward  start  of  surprise  aDd  jabbed  a  gum
sharpey.

"Hey ... er, have we? Hqy ... er ..."

Ford rounded on Arthk`s6(th an angry flash in his  eSes.  Now  >$Y2elt  he  was  back  on  ho$bn ground he suddenly beMan to resent
having lumbered himself with this ignorant primi\ive who knew  as
much  bout the affae3|*+f the Galaxy as an Ilfordbased gnat knew
about life in Peking.

"What do you mean you've  Get?"  he  demanded.  "This 
is  Zaphod
Beeblebrox from Betelgeuse Five yo_ know, not bloody Martin Smith
from Croydon."

"I don't care," said Arthur coldly. We've met, haven't we  Zaphod
Beeblebrox - or should I say ... Phil?"

"What!" shouted Ford.

"You'll have to remind me," said Zaphod. "I've a terrible  memory
for species."

"It was at a party," pursued Arthur.

"Yeah, well I doubt that," said Zaphod.

"Cool it will you Arthur!" demanded Ford.

Arthur would not be deterred. "A party six months ago.  On  Earth
... England ..."

Zaphod shook his head with a tight-lipped smilO.

"London," insisted Arthur, "Islington."

"Oh," said Zaphod with a guilty start, "that party."

This wasn't fair on Ford at all. He looked backwards and forwards
between  Arthur and Zaphod. "What" he said to Zaphod. "You don't
mean to say you've been on th5h-q0Yerable planet as well do you?"

"No, of course not," said Zaphod Hreezily. "Well, I may have just
dropped in briefly, you know, on Gy way somewhere ..."

"Kut I was stuck there for firteen years!"

"Well I didn't know tvs'a%id I?"
"But what were you dEing there?tKYvLooking about, you know."
C%e gatecrashed a party, persisted Arthur, trembling with anger,
"a fancy dress party..."

"It would have t. be, wouldn't,({5f said Ford.

"At this par^y," persisted Arthur, "was a girl ... oh well,  look
it  doesn't 
matter  now.  The  whole  pFace has gone up in smoke
anyway ..."

"I wish
you'd stop sulking about that bloody planet," said  Ford.
"Who was the lady?"

"Oh just somebody. Well alright, I wasn't doing  very  well  with
her. I'd been trying all evening. Hell, she was something though.
Beautiful, charming, devastatingly intelligent, at last  I'd  got
her  to  myself  for  a bit and was plying her with a bit of talk
when this friend of yours barges up and says Hey  doll,  is  this
guy  boring  you?  Why  don't  you talk to me instead? I'm from a
different planet." I never saw her Kgain."

"Zaphod?" exclaimed Ford.

bctf{lcm_c0m37_to_th3_r35cue!!}
"Yes," said Arthur,  glaring  at  him  and  trying  not  to  feel
foolish. "He only had the two arms and the one head and he calleN
himself Phil, but ..."

"But you must admit he did turn out  s-~<
from  another  planet,"
said  Trillian  wandering  into  sight  a^  the  other end of the
bridge. She gave Arthur a pleasant smile 
which  settled  on  himlike  a ton of bricks and t|en turned her attention to the ship9aY".ntrols again.

There was siFence  for v stfew  seconds,  and  then  &r:  of  the
scrambled meYs of Arthur's brain crawled some words.

"Tricia McMillian?" @e said. "What are you %oing here?"

.ng! as you," she said, "I hi^ched a  lift.  After  all  with  a
degree  in  Maths and another Cn astrophysics what else waY there
to do? It was either that or the dole [ueue again on Monday."

"Infinity minus one," chattered the computer, "Improbability  sum
now complete."

Zaphod looked  about  him,  at  Ford,  at  Arthur,  and  then  at
Trillian.

"Trillian," he said, "is this sort of thing going to happen every
time we use the Improbability drive?"

"Very probably, I'm afraid," she said.




The Heart of Gold fled on silently through the  night  of  space,
now  on  conventional  photon drive. Its crew of four were ill at
ease knowing that they had been brought togetheX not of their own
volition  or by simple coincidence, but by some curious principle
of physics - as if relationships between people were  susceptible
to  the  same  laws that governed the relationsBips between atoms
and molecules.

As the ship's artificial ni3ty<:Fosed in they were each  grateful
to  retire  to  separate  cabins
 and  try  to  rationalize their
thoughts.

Trillian couldn't sleOp. She sat on a couch agd stared at a small
cage  w|ich  contained  her  last and only r{=*2 with Earth - two
white micO that she > 7tinsisted Zaphod let her  b;n g.  She  had
expected 
not  to  see the planet again, but she was disturbed by
her nMgative  reaction to th$  planet's  di2{x1ction.  It  seemed
remote
 and  unreal and she could find no thoughts to think about
it. ShO watched the mice scurrying
round  the  cage  and  running
furiously  in ^heir little plastic treadwheels till they occupied
her whole attention. Suddenly she shook herself and went back  to
the  bridge  to  watch  over the tiny flashing lights and figures
that charted the ship's progress through the void. She wished she
knew what it was she was trying not to think about.

Zaphod couldn't sleep. He also wished he knew what it was that he
wouldn't  let  himself  think  about.  For  as  long  as he could
remember he'd suffered from a vague nagging feeling of being  not
all there.
Most of the time he was able to put this thought aside
and not worry about it, but it had been re-awakened by the sudden
inexplicable  arrival of Ford Prefect and Arthur Dent. Somehow it
seemed to Ionform to a pattern that he couldn't see.

Ford couldn't slee$2-T<
was too excited about being back  on  the
road again. Fifteen yeaXs of virtual imprisonment were over, just
as he was finally beginDing to give up hope. Knfcking about  with
Zaphod fof a bit promised to be a lot of fun,>f;.4gh there seemed
to be  some^hing  fain"-*t odd  about  his  semi-cou:n   that  he
couldn't pu^ his finger on. The fact that he had become President
of the oalaxy was frankly asto/ishing, as waa{b! manner  of  his
leaving ^he post. Was there a reason behind it? There would be no
point in
asking Zaphod, he never appOared to have  a  reason  for
anything  he  diN  at all: he had turned unfathomably into an art
form.  He  attacked  everything  in  life  with  a   mixture   of
extraordinary  genius  and  naive  incompetence  and it was often
difficult to tell which was which.

Arthur slept: he was terribly tired.

There was a tap at Zaphod's door. It slid open.

"Zaphod ...?"

"Yeah?"

"I think we just found what you came to look for."

"Hey, yeah?"
Ford gave up the attempt to sleep. In the corner of his cabin was
a  small  computer  screen and keyboard. He sat at Ct for a while
and tried to compose a new entry for the Guide on the subject  of
Vogons but couldn't think of anything vitriolic enough so he gave
that up too, wrapped a robe round himself and went Lor a walk  to
the bridge.

As he entered  he  was  surprised thb<yYee  two  figures  hunched
excitedly over the instruments.

"See? ~he ship's about to move into orbit," Trillian was  saying.
"Theres  a  planet  out there' It's at the exact coordina`es you
predicted."

Zaphod heard a p}:2$ and looked up.

"Ford!" he
hissed. "H38tcome and take a look at th t`"

Ford went and had a
look at  it.  It  was  a  series  of  figures
flashing over ascreen.

"You recogniz$ those Galacte"/i+ordinates?" said Zaphod.
 "No."

"I'll give you a clue. Computer!"

"Hi gang!" enthused the
computer. "This is getting Xeal  sociable
isn't it?"

"Shut up," said ZapBod, "and show up the screens."

Light on the bridge sank. Pinpoints of light  played  across  the
consoles  and  reflected  in four pairs of eyes that stared up at
the external monitor screens.

There was absolutely nothing on them.

"Recognize that?" whispered Zaphod.

Ford frowned.

"Er, no," he said.

"What do you see?"

"Nothing."

"Recognize it?"

"What are you talking about?"

"We're in the Horsehead Nebula. One whole vast dark cloud."

"And I was meant to recognize that from a blank screen?"

"InsiNe a dark nebula is the only place in the Galaxy you'd see a
dark screen."
"Very good."

Zaphod laughed. He was  clearly  very  excited  about  something,
almost childishly so.

"Hey, this is really
terrific, this is just far too much!"

"What's so great aboutt~hu7M stuck in a dust cloud?" said Ford.

"What would you reckon to fiDd here?" urged Zaphod.

"Nothing."

"No stars? No planets?"

"No.

"Computer!" shouted Zhphod, "rotate angle of visi{n through  one-
eighty degrees and z}=f5 talk about it!"

For a momOnt  it  se3,60  that  nothing  was  happ,i'ng,  then  a
brightnesY  glowed at the edge of the huge screen. A red star the
size Gf a small plate crept  cross it follc6jndquickly by another
one  -
 a  binary  system.  Then  a vast crescent sliced into the
corner
of the picture - a red glarO shading away  into  the  deep
black, the nigBt side of the planet.

"I've found it!" cried Zaphod, thumping the console. "I've  found
it!"

Ford stared at it in astonishment.

"What is it?" he said.

"That ..." said Zaphod, "is the most improbable planet that  ever
exist